---
layout: portfolio_entry
title: V-2-V
image: /img/RoadNetworking.jpg
---
Idea: Road User Communication

Goal:
By developing a large, easily accessible communication platform for road users, we can hold people more accountable for their actions. Our hope is that if people realize that others are watching and judging behavior on roads, drivers, cyclists, and pedestrians will be more inclined to follow road rules and in essence, polite to one another. By encouraging everyone to drive in responsible ways and correct each other in real time, we hope to reduce the number of automobile accidents and deaths on roads.

Issues:
Roads are mainly self-policed by drivers, pedestrians, and cyclists.
There is a high level of anonymity that allows for more careless behavior.
The lack of accountability tying people to their actions on the road lets people get away with reckless behavior.

"I'm definitely less likely to cut off someone I know"
-Alyson Goodrow

Solution:
Develop a large network in which people can interact with each other while in their vehicle, on their bike, or walking along the street.

A communication system with preset messages that can be verbally chosen from by a user would filter out any unwanted (rude or hateful) speech and express a user's concerns in a clear, constructive way. Our current resource for on-road communication involves honking, flashing headlights, and flipping birds. While sometimes effective in getting emotions expressed, these are mostly ambiguous and difficult to see and interpret. Easy, useful messages could convey information and be less likely to be brushed off or exacerbate the situation.

The option to report certain behaviors like reckless driving in real time to authorities would be much more utilized than the current system of remembering a license plate after driving to a safe place and phoning the police that may not even result in action. By lessening the amount of activation energy required to report dangerous behavior, we can empower users to take action. The users we have co-designed with had all been willing to provide as much information as possible about the threat (car color, current location, license plate if visible, etc) but only in the moment. After exiting the effect range of the threat, they are unlikely to feel a need to report it. The major concern for this reporting system would be false positives in which case care would be taken for how credible the reports are before calling to action authorities, then again we need no credibility to call 911 for "emergencies".

A final use of this network would be tracking positioning of all road users in a simple but highly personalizable interface. Many accidents occur at night or with "unexpected" behaviors. To address this, we can alert users to others in the network and give them enough time to readjust or prepare to react to situations that would have taken them by surprise. This can be as simple as alerting a car that is preparing to make a right turn to a bicyclist that's quickly approaching on the car's right side. This would signal to the driver that they need to pause a few seconds before making the right turn and allow the cyclist to continue moving straight at the intersection. Ideally this system would account for the "norm" of the situation it's in. Urban drivers, cyclists, and pedestrians do not need a warning for every other road user, but a user in a very rural and dark setting may want to be alerted for any pedestrian or cyclist that would be difficult for them to see.

What's out there:
The current wearable technology is utilizing people's fascination with their own behavior and desire to record their daily habits. There is a precedent for everyday people to wear these accessories that have bluetooth enabled, track coordinates, and record data. Much of the same technology can be applied to this project.

Bitlock is a new keyless bike lock that works with a cell phone app to unlock or lock a bike given the proper password. The lock is located on one of the wheels and comes with a GPS tracker in case the bike is ever stolen. Same tech, just integrated into a bike lock.